README.md, before:

# Infrastructure overview
![Network diagram detailing the server side setup](https://cdn.013.team/development/Screenshot-2023-11-30-010257.png)

There are also 2 other sites used as CDNS:
- cdn.013.team - used for hosting static web asssets (images, videos, icons etc)
- usercontent.013.team - used for hosting usercontent such as avatars etc.

# Infrastructure configuration
The api requires for each node to be able to include a php file containing secrets and config info using the following format:
```php
<?php
// infrastrucure
const MYSQL_DATABASE = "team013";
const MYSQL_USERNAME = "team013";
const MYSQL_PASSWORD = "database password";
const MYSQL_SERVER = "localhost";
const SESSION_VALIDATION_BASE = "http://localhost:4231/";

// encryption
const SESSION_HMAC_ALGO = "sha3-256";
const SESSION_ENCRYPTION_ALGO = "aes-256-cbc";

// both 256 bit keys
const SESSION_ENCRYPTION_KEY_HEX = "session encryption key";
const SESSION_HMAC_KEY_HEX = "session signing key";
?>
```


# Run on local machine

## with production api

1. Install [PHP VS16 x64 Non Thread Safe (direct download)](https://windows.php.net/downloads/releases/php-8.2.12-nts-Win32-vs16-x64.zip)
2. Extract to `C:\php`
3. Install the [PHP Server](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=brapifra.phpserver) extension for VS Code
4. Change the php server location to serve from `web/` OR open the `web/` folder directly in vscode 
5. In the extension settings give the directory of your php folder and php.ini to PHP Server
6. Start the php server in the `web` folder

    *Make sure there is a trailing slash in URLs because php server wont load styles or scripts if there isnt.*

    *URLs should look like this:* `localhost:3000/dashboard/` `localhost:3000/`

The site should now function like normal on your local machine.

## setting up local api
1. change the php include path to include the api folder include_path = ".;C:\..\githubrepo\api\"
2. enable the openssl, curl, mysqli extensions
3. install mariadb and setup an account to access
4. create the secrets.php
   1. generate 2 encryption keys in a hex representation
   2. insert the database credentials you just created
5. import the database format (dump.sql on the discord or get the latest backup from gcp) using mariadb < dump.sql with the credentials
6. in addition to the web folder php server, run another php server in the api/routes folder
7. the api will need a copy of the invalidation service running so build and run that (or use an already built executable)
8. in global-api.js uncomment the const API_BASE and change it to the address of the php server you just started


# Important notes for pt2
- Fontawesome import has now changed to be hosted on cdnjs.cloudflare.com
- We are no longer going to use the 3rd party avatar api as it shares data (employee names with a 3rd party site)
- assets like images should be stored on the cdn, not the repo
- hostable user data (like wiki post images) should never be accessed via the root domain (013.team), only the usercontent cdn (usercontent.013.team)
- dont use inline anything (no css in html, no scripts in html, no onClick attributes for elements)

### jamie
![30th feb moment](https://cdn.013.team/Screenshot2023-11-28-024447.png)

Commit message:

add composer info to readme

README.md, after:

# Infrastructure overview
![Network diagram detailing the server side setup](https://cdn.013.team/development/Screenshot-2023-11-30-010257.png)

There are also 2 other sites used as CDNS:
- cdn.013.team - used for hosting static web asssets (images, videos, icons etc)
- usercontent.013.team - used for hosting usercontent such as avatars etc.

# Infrastructure configuration
The api requires for each node to be able to include a php file containing secrets and config info using the following format:
```php
<?php
// infrastrucure
const MYSQL_DATABASE = "team013";
const MYSQL_USERNAME = "team013";
const MYSQL_PASSWORD = "database password";
const MYSQL_SERVER = "localhost";
const SESSION_VALIDATION_BASE = "http://localhost:4231/";

// encryption
const SESSION_HMAC_ALGO = "sha3-256";
const SESSION_ENCRYPTION_ALGO = "aes-256-cbc";

// both 256 bit keys
const SESSION_ENCRYPTION_KEY_HEX = "session encryption key";
const SESSION_HMAC_KEY_HEX = "session signing key";
?>
```


# Run on local machine

## with production api

1. Install [PHP VS16 x64 Non Thread Safe (direct download)](https://windows.php.net/downloads/releases/php-8.2.12-nts-Win32-vs16-x64.zip)
2. Extract to `C:\php`
3. Install the [PHP Server](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=brapifra.phpserver) extension for VS Code
4. Change the php server location to serve from `web/` OR open the `web/` folder directly in vscode 
5. In the extension settings give the directory of your php folder and php.ini to PHP Server
6. Start the php server in the `web` folder

    *Make sure there is a trailing slash in URLs because php server wont load styles or scripts if there isnt.*

    *URLs should look like this:* `localhost:3000/dashboard/` `localhost:3000/`

The site should now function like normal on your local machine.

## setting up local api
1. change the php include path to include the api folder include_path = ".;C:\..\githubrepo\api\"
2. enable the openssl, curl, mysqli, mbstring extensions
3. install composer
4. install the composer packages: google/cloud-storage
5. install mariadb and setup an account to access
6. create the secrets.php
   1. generate 2 encryption keys in a hex representation
   2. insert the database credentials you just created
7. import the database format (dump.sql on the discord or get the latest backup from gcp) using mariadb < dump.sql with the credentials
8. in addition to the web folder php server, run another php server in the api/routes folder
9.  the api will need a copy of the invalidation service running so build and run that (or use an already built executable)
10. in global-api.js uncomment the const API_BASE and change it to the address of the php server you just started


# Important notes for pt2
- Fontawesome import has now changed to be hosted on cdnjs.cloudflare.com
- We are no longer going to use the 3rd party avatar api as it shares data (employee names with a 3rd party site)
- assets like images should be stored on the cdn, not the repo
- hostable user data (like wiki post images) should never be accessed via the root domain (013.team), only the usercontent cdn (usercontent.013.team)
- dont use inline anything (no css in html, no scripts in html, no onClick attributes for elements)

### jamie
![30th feb moment](https://cdn.013.team/Screenshot2023-11-28-024447.png)
